-- SUMMARY SECTION -- 

'Adaptable data scienctist and Navy veteran'

Want to highlight desired position in the summary.

Want to be able to explain where you were and where you want to be going.

The summary will be the bullet points for what you want to be able to elaborate on durring the interview.

Don't have a long list of words.

Summary sets the tone for the rest of the resume.

-- PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE --

We DO want to include military experience even if over 10 years ago.

We want to highlight to employers that we are able to perform.

Highlight in bullet points: leadership, saving time or money, improving a process.

Action verb + task + RESULTS

Every bullet point independent of the others.

STAR method: situation task action results

Want to use keywords based on desired job description.

Want to vary action verbs even if tasks were similar.

https://www.themuse.com/advice/185-powerful-verbs-that-will-make-your-resume-awesome

How to keep your resume concise but elaborate enough?

Initially we want to break out each job into as many bullet points as we can, then tailor the bullet points to the job description.

Begin by putting everything on your resume / master resume.

Job experience is only insignificant if YOU PORTRAY it that way.

You want to brag about your experiences and skills.

Want the job bullet points to lead back into our summary and show abiltity to consistantly perform.

Gaps: we don't need to mention it on the resume. But we want to be able to ARTICULATE why the gaps took place durring an interview.

The task and results part might need to be lengthy, but try to keep it within 2 lines maximum.

Generally only want past 10 years experience unless it is very relevent to the job description.

-- INTERVIEW --

Only YOU will be selling your skills. ALWAYS answer the question asked, and don't sell yourself short.

ARTICULATION of your skills and life experiences is key.

Tell me a little about yourself:
elevator pitch format
tell your partner 3 words others use to describe you

strategic, focused ... level-headed?

I am a data scientist
i enjoy working with data because ... 
I enjoy the process of problem solving and using data to understand problems that companies face.
I used data to cut shipping and purchasing costs for a small manufacturing company.
I want to use data to help animals or work in the aerospace industry.